Your full name:

Your email:

Type name: application
	
Subtype name: sarif+json
	
Required parameters: N/A
	
Optional parameters: N/A
	
Encoding considerations:
	
Security considerations:

	Producers and consumers of SARIF files should consider the following security-related issues:

	1) SARIF files contain results produced by static analysis tools. These results might
	describe security vulnerabilities, or other defects that should not be disclosed, in the
	software being analyzed. Since SARIF is a textual format with no provision for protecting
	potentially sensitive results, SARIF should only be used in an environment that provides an
	appropriate level of security. For example, SARIF files might be stored on a file share with
	limited permissions, or transmitted by means of an encrypted protocol such as HTTPS.

	2) SARIF files contain URIs which specify the location of the files that were analyzed.
	If these URIs are absolute, they might disclose information about the system on which the
	analysis took place, such as the name of the engineer, for example: "file://C:/Users/MarySmith/src/ui/window.c".
	For this reason, URIs should be specified as relative references, for example: "ui/window.c".

	Even relative URIs might disclose sensitive information about the implementation of the software,
	for example, "encryption/sha1.c". For this reason, again, SARIF should only be used in an
	environment that provides sufficient security.

	3) SARIF provides a property run.originalBaseUriIds whose purpose is explicitly to provide the
	absolute URI ("file:/Users/MarySmith") with respect to which relative references such as
	"ui/window.c" are evaluated. This property discloses information, and should only be used
	in an environment that provides sufficient security.

	4) SARIF provides an object named invocation which contains information about how the static
	analysis tool was invoked. Many of its properties (for example, machine, account, and
	environmentVariables) disclose information about the machine on which the analysis took
	place. These properties should only be used in an environment that provides sufficient
	security.

	5) The URIs in a SARIF file might point to insecure resources such as malicious web sites.
	They might also contain executable code (for example, in a "javascript:" URI). SARIF
	producers should not emit such URIs. SARIF consumers should take care not to follow
	malicious links. In practice, this means that end users should not open SARIF files
	unless they trust the producer.

	6) User-visible messages in SARIF files can be expressed either in plain text or in a rich
	text format (by default, GitHub-flavored Markdown). Markdown can contain arbitrary HTML,
	which poses a security risk. SARIF producers should not emit HTML. SARIF consumers should
	sanitize the Markdown they receive (for example, by removing embedded HTML). SARIF consumers
	should process Markdown with a Markdown processor that allows HTML processing to be disabled,
	and that guards against stack overflows induced by maliciously constructed Markdown.

	7) SARIF defines an extensibility mechanism that allows SARIF producers to include arbitrary
	properties in a SARIF file (information that is not explicitly defined in the SARIF format).
	If a SARIF producer uses this mechanism to define a property that contains executable code or
	script, and if SARIF consumer that is aware of this property executes the content, this might
	permit an attack. SARIF producers should not emit executable content. If they do, a SARIF
	consumer that is aware of that content should execute it only if it trusts the producer.
	
Interoperability considerations:
	
Published specification:
	
Applications that use this media type:
	
Fragment identifier considerations:
	
Additional information:
	
Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A
Magic number(s): N/A
File extension(s): .sarif
Macintosh file type code(s): N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Intended usage:
(One of COMMON, LIMITED USE, or OBSOLETE.)

Restrictions on usage:
(Any restrictions on where the media type can be used go here.)

Author:

Change controller:

Provisional registration? (standards tree only): No

(Any other information that the author deems interesting may be   added below this line.)
