1. Opening Activities
1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair Keaton)
1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair Keaton)
  Paul Anderson     (Grammatech, Inc.)      - Voting member
  David Keaton      (Individual)            - Chair
  Eddy Nakamura     (Microsoft)             - Voting member
  Michael Fanning   (Microsoft)             - Secretary, taking notes
  Katrina O'Neil    (Micro Focus)           - Voting member
  Stegan Hagen      (Invidual)              - Attendee
1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair Keaton)
1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair Keaton)
  https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/69055/agenda_20210930.html
  Michael moves, Eddy second, no discussion, objections, approved.
1.5 Approval of previous minutes [Minutes of 2021-09-17 Meeting #44] (Co-Chair Keaton)
  https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/sarif/download.php/69054/SARIF_TC_44.txt
  Michael moves, Eddy second, no discussion, objections, approved.
1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Previous Meeting Fanning)
 *ACTION Eddy:  Review errata for possible improvements to eco-system validator. Started, nearly complete.
 *ACTION Michael: Finalize errata docs and send to David for next steps, ballot, etc. Finalized, but unsent.
 *ACTION Michael: Rework SARIF repository to conform to new suggestion for managing agenda, notes, etc.
 *ACTION Michael: Reach out to MicroFocus on 7PK copyright issues, if any. Contacted.
 *ACTION Michael: Author 2.2 roadmap, complete partial 2.2 design work, metrics and refactoring rough proposal.
1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair Keaton)
 All voting members present.
1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting
1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting
  Stefan Hagen regains voting rights at end of meeting.
1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends
1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting
1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence
2. Future Meetings
2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)
  Proposed Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PDT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  October 15, 2021
  October 28, 2021
  Tentative in-person meeting for 2022Q1.
3. Discussion
3.1 Review recruitment effort to complete the technical committee
 Snyk has not shown for several attempts at contact, we will halt.
 StackHawk meeting, expresses an interest in DAST.
 Reengaged with GitHub, Aditya
 ForAllSecure, fuzzing, willing to engage
 WhiteSource, NTT, sent mail, haven't heard back.
3.2 Review status of draft Wikipedia page
3.3 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata
 Mike and Eddy to finalize. We will create a special majority vote with a public 15 day review period. 
3.4 
 AWS CloudFormation Linter, for GHAS
 SARIF export for internal MS threat modeling linter
 VS adding suppressions to the log via the UI, VS code would be a follow-on.
3.5 Review current state of taxonomies
 No updates. We will meet with Alex Hoole re: 7PK. This taxonomy was recently updated with new categories, raises questions on versioning and maintenance. Can MicroFocus to get a copy of the definite data? Open to helping. We believe we've implemented all public taxonomies. Finished HDF, GDPR needs examination.
3.6 Review SARIF 2.2 execution roadmap and first set of design proposals.
If we extend into DAST, let's change name to 'Software analysis results interchange format'. For this, we need a recharter of the TC, propose a charter, we vote on it, it will go through OASIS for approval, and scope is subsequently expanded. We will require a new TC, which could handle the new stuff or everything could transfer to the new TC. If it's a close call, let's be sure to keep talking, because it would be help to avoid mechanical costs. Interpretation of work product is what's important. Stefan, David and Chet to drive.

Michael moves that we repurpose our name as 'Software Analysis Results Interchange Format', to increase our scope to the broad range of software-driven quality concerns, for examples, metrics, dynamic analysis, etc.
Paul seconds, no discussion, no objections

No concrete design proposals. Propose a very simple roadmap:
 * Bless errata
 * Design all non-breaking changes to existing data/structures.
 * Ring-fence breaking changes as a distinct effort
 * Refactoring/general design, DAST, metrics, people, results mgmt.

DAST + metrics

3.7 Discuss metrics and SARIF refactoring.
 1. Put it in artifacts table, results remain focused on policy computations. AppInsights, metrics, etc. 30 CodeSonar metrics, metrics at three granularities, the projects, the files, the functions, we need types. Paul is on MISRA committee for software quality metrics, working on a standard set, for the embedded C/C++. There are other ad hoc standards for metrics, not strong. A metric is associated with an analysis, and so it is like a 'run', there is focus on computed values. TODO: get CodeSonar metrics, get MISRA current thinking/proposals, review other standards/formats. Q: what is a metric? it is a property of code, typically rendered as a linear, scalar value. What other types could they be? Recommended ranges, sometimes with constraints. Do we propose a metrics scheme? i.e., do we have a notion of metrics 'rules', i.e., metadata descriptions of metrics. This would argue for result-annotations. Units in metrics and who interprets that or validates it. OMG/KDM Nick Mansourov. Stefan points out that metrics are appealing to customers, be sure to keep this lens in mind. 'Convincing slots to express evaluations'. We are an assessment and evaluation tool. CAST software makes a business out of generating metrics at a large scale for organizations. Talk to Semmle about it, they were a direct competitor back in the day. TODO focus on metrics. 

 2. Push out bulk data descriptions as indirect references. Web is reduced. Standalone format as computed, sparse, point-in-time, efficient, intact.

4. Other Business
 Michael moves to promote Stefan to secretary, Paul seconds, no discussion, no objects, so moved. 

5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)
5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)
5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Meeting Secretary)
  Meeting dates approved, errata directions approved, repo reworking to drive process approved, general roadmap for next three meetings.
5.3 Review of Action Items (Meeting Secretary)
6. Next Meeting
 October 14, 2021 / 08:00-09:30 PDT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
7. Adjournment
 Michael moves, Paul seconds, no discussion, no objections, approved.

TODO: Unchair Dr. 
TODO: posted as SARIF TC documents, finalize/Eddy review for two weeks, vote.
TODO: Should we update reviewer/other team membership? Add Stefan, Chet, secretary.
TODO: Michael: Kevin Green, Parasoft
TODO: David: Update wikipedia page, https://github.com/dmk42/sarif-spec working_draft_wikipedia_page.md branch)
TODO: Mike/Eddy pull together errata, review, send to David

